---
title: Overview of Redis
layout: post
tags: ["redis"]
---

# Startup #
## Global server state initialization ##
### Initializing the default values ###
The whole story begins with the `main()` function in `redis.c`. 
First the `initServerConfig()` is called to initialize the members of
the global variable `server` to their default values.
The `server` variable, which has the type of `struct redisServer`, 
is responsible for maintaining the global states of this redis
instance, including 

* general server state
* statistics
* configuration from config file
* replication
* eventloop 
* command table


### Setting up the command table ###
As part of the initial configuration, the redis command table, which
is a hash map from string to `struct redisCommand`, is populated with
the hard coded command list on top of `redis.c` file.
### Loading config file ###
Then if the `redis.conf` is provided in commmand line arguments, its
configuration will be loaded into the `server` variable to overwrite
the default values.
### Finishing the initialization job ###
The `initServer()` is called to finish the initialization job. 
First it sets up signal handling (the `SIGHUB` and `SIGPIPE` are
ignored) by calling `setupSignalHandlers()`.

Then it creates a number of linked lists to maintain the state of
clients, slaves, monitors, etc...  And some shared objects which can be
safely shared between commands
are created in the function `createSharedObjects()`, most of which are
strings, like the error messages, and the others are integer
objects from 0 to `REDIS_SHARED_INTEGERS`. With the tradeoff of a
little bit more initialization work at startup time, we needn't to
allocate them each time thus saving a lot of time and memory.

#### Event loop ####
Next, the `initServer()` calls `aeCreateEventLoop()` to create the
core event loop.
`ae.h` is a platform independent wrapper for the underlying IO
notification system, which uses `epoll` on Linux, `kqueue` on BSD and
falls back to `select` if no other choices are available.
Redis uses this event loop to handle new connections from clients and
write responses to clients when the sockets are writeable. By
exploiting the power of async event loop, Redis can serve thousands
of clients simutaneously without blocking any one of them.

#### Databases ####
Then `initServer()` initializes a number of `redisDb` objects, which
encapsulate the details of a particular Redis database. 

#### Listening sockets ####
The tcp or unix socket server is created according to the
configuration in `initServer()`.

#### Server cron ####
`initServer()` creates a time event for `serverCron()`, which will be
triggered every 100ms. This function is responsible for
the periodic jobs of Redis server:

* Updating server statistics
* Ajusting the database structures
* Firing the background saving or AOF rewriting
* Checking if a background saving or AOF rewriting in progress is terminated
* Closing timeout clients
* Flusing the AOF buffer 
* Expiring keys in databases
* Reconnecting to master and detecting transfer failures
* Managing vm (we won't discuss the vm, since it will be discarded.)

#### Registering connection handlers with event loop ####
The `acceptTcpHandler()` and `acceptUnixHandler()` are hooked up with
the event loop to handle new connections from clients.

#### Opening the AOF ####
The `initServer()` opens the existing AOF or creates a new one if no AOF exists.

### Restoring data ###
The server will use the AOF to restore the database if AOF is enabled,
since it's more reliable.
Otherwise the server will use the rdb file instead.

Before entering the eventloop, `main()` will set up a `beforeSleep()`
to be called each time before sleeping for IO events. Since we won't
discuss the vm, this function mainly does one thing: flushing the AOF
to disk.

### Entering the event loop ###
Redis enters the event loop by calling `aeMain()`. The main event loop
consists of two functions: `beforeSleep()` and
`aeProcessEvents()`. The former one is only used to flush AOF as we said
before. And the latter one is the actual place where the event processsing
stuff happens.

#### Processing Events ####
Every time the `aeProcessEvents()` is called, it first checks the
nearest timer waiting to be triggered to see how much time is left for us
to do the IO work. Then `aeApiPoll()` is called with the time we just
calculated, which means we can only wait for that much time. The IO
events returned are processed by their corresponding read or write handlers. 
At last, the time events will be processed by calling
`processTimeEvents()`.

# Processing a request & returning a response #

We've already known that the `acceptTcpHandler()` and
`acceptUnixHandler()` are responsible for handling new connections. 
These two functions are basicly the same except for accepting new
connection in different way.  Then `acceptCommonHandler()` will be
called to create a client of type `redisClient` for each connection. 
This variale will be used to maintain the data and state
related to a specific client, like the query buffer, reply buffer, 
replication state, etc... 

## Reading the raw query data ##
After creating the client, a file event is added to the event
loop, which will be triggered when the query data is available
and the `readQueryFromClient()` function will be called to handle the request
from client.

Since the event loop uses non-blocking IO, it's possible that
`readQueryFromClient()` cannot read the whole query in one time.
So it just appends the data from the client to the query buffer and let
`processInputBuffer()` do the rest work.

## Parsing ##
The `processInputBuffer()` will process the request in query buffer
one by one and call `processInlineBuffer()` or
`processMultibulkBuffer()` to parse the raw query data to
corresponding redis objects. Then `processInputBuffer()` will call 
`processCommand()` to execute the command.

## Dispatching the command ##
The `processCommand()` will look up in server's command table using
the command name string and return the pointer to 
a `struct redisCommand` in command table. Then after some checks about 
trivial error conditions, the `call()` function is invoked, which is
the core of Redis execution of a command.

## Actual execution ##
After the execution of a specific command using its corresponding
handler, the `call()` function will append this command to the AOF
buffer (if AOF is enabled) or feed this command to its slaves to do
replication (if replication is enabled),  which will be explained in
the next section.

## Building the reply ##
Even though several functions are used to build reply data, they
basically work in the same way.
Here we just take `addReply()` for a example.

When called, the `addReply()` function will first add a write event
into the event loop by calling the `_installWriteEvent()` function. 

This function first checks if the reply buffer is empty. If not, which
means there is already a file event handling this buffer, this
function just return `REDIS_OK`. 

Then if the client's replication state is
not in `REDIS_REPL_NONE` or `REDIS_REPL_ONLINE`, which means the reply
should be buffered in the reply buffer instead of writing to the
client right now, this function also returns `REDIS_OK`. 

After the above checks, a file write event is added to the event
loop, which will be fired when the connection to client is writable
and `sendReplyToClient()` will be called to do the actual work to write
data to client.

Then the reply object is added to the reply buffer, waiting to be
processed by `sendReplyToClient()`.

## About the reply buffer ##
There are two different reply buffers for each client: one is a
static buffer (`client->buf`), the other is a linked list
(`client->reply`).

Everytime a reply object is to be added to the buffer, we will
first try to add it to the static array then the linked list.
If there are already entries in the reply list, we cannot add anything
more to the static buffer (to keep the order of the replies). And if the static buffer does have
enough space available, we cannot add the reply too.

If we fail to add the reply to static buffer, we append it to the
reply list and increase its refcount. 

So why not just use the single reply list instead of two different
 buffers?
You may have noticed that when
we add the reply object to the reply list, we modify its refcount. If
there is a child process doing background saving at the same time,
this will result in a copy-on-write which is pretty expensive.

So by using two different buffers, we can avoid some useless copy-on-write.


# References #
1. [Redis: under the hood](http://pauladamsmith.com/articles/redis-under-the-hood.html)
2. [More Redis internals: Tracing a GET &
SET](http://pauladamsmith.com/blog/2011/03/redis_get_set.html)

